
Basic Git Questions:
1. What is a version control system (VCS)?
A:Version control is also known as Revision control a.k.a. source control, is a process to manage a collection of program code and changes that
 provide you with many capabilities, such as:
Maintain multiple versions of code
An ability to go back to any previous version.
Developers can work in parallel.
Audit traceability with clear picture on whom, which when, where and what are the changes.
Synchronize the code.

2. What is Git repository?
A:A Git repository is the .git/ folder inside a project. This repository tracks all changes made to files in your project, building a history over time. 
Meaning, if you delete the .git/ folder, then you delete your project’s history.


3. What does git clone do?
A:To put it simply, git clone repository-url does the following things, in order:
a)Creates a new empty repository. git init
b)Creates a remote called "origin" and sets it to the given url. git remote add origin repository-url
c)Fetches all commits and remote branches from the remote called "origin". git fetch --all
d)Creates a local branch "master" to track the remote branch "origin/master". git 

4. What does the command git config do?
A:Git config file setup. To set up your Git config file, open a command line for the distribution you're working in and set your name 
with this command (replacing "Your Name" with your preferred username): git config --global user.name "Your Name" 
Set your email with this command (replacing "youremail@domain.com" with the email you prefer):

5. What is a conflict?
A:A conflict in git arises when two different branches try to edit the same line in a file, or a file gets deleted in a particular branch but edited in another. 
Git handles most of the merges successfully with its merging features, but it can also be resolved manually using tools like git status, git reset, git checkout, 
and Git log.

6. What does git status command do?
A:Git Status is a simple command that tells us the state of our repository.
It gives us information about files that have not been committed yet. ...
It also gives information about the current branch and even indicates the files where a merge conflict has occurred.
Git Status also tells us the next commands that we should use for different purposes.
7. Define “Index”.
A:The Git index is a critical data structure in Git. It serves as the “staging area” between the files you have on your filesystem and your commit history. When you run git add, 
the files from your working directory are hashed and stored as objects in the index, leading them to be “staged changes”
8. What does git add command do?
A:The git add command adds a change in the working directory to the staging area. It tells Git that you want to include updates to a particular file in the next commit. 
However, git add doesn't really affect the repository in any significant way—changes are not actually recorded until you run git commit.

In conjunction with these commands, you'll also need git status to view the state of the working directory and the staging area.
9. Complete Lessons 1 through 4 in section marked "Introduction Sequence" at the following link:
https://learngitbranching.js.org/?locale=en_US